# Array Methods with Callbacks

## Lesson Objectives

1. Define and understand the various different callback methods that can be used on an array.
2. Understand what each method does and when we might want to use it.

**Question: What array methods have we used before?**

### Callback Methods

1. Every
1. Filter
1. Find
1. Find Index
1. For Each
1. Map
1. Reduce
1. Some
1. Sort

## What is an Array Method with a Callback?

An array method that accepts a callback executes a function on the current element of the given array

**Okay...but what does that mean?**

Lets take a look:

```javascript
const iceCreams = ['Vanilla', 'Chocolate', 'Strawberry', 'Rocky Road']
```

What if I want to go over each item in this array and log the current ice cream?

... How would you solve this?

Lucky for us we have the `.forEach` method.

```javascript
const iceCreams = ['Vanilla', 'Chocolate', 'Strawberry', 'Rocky Road']

iceCreams.forEach((flavor) => {
  console.log(flavor)
})
```

_What is happening here?_

`forEach` calls a provided callback function once for each element in an array, in order.

**Food for thought: How could we have written this functionality with a "for" loop?**

<!-- **Food for thought: Does the `map` method mutate the original array?** -->

### Lets try another one!

Javascript also comes with a built in `.map` method.

`map` calls a provided callback function once for each element in an array, in order, and constructs a new array from the return values

Use the `map` method with the following array to multiply each item by 2 and log the new array.

```javascript
const arr = [2, 4, 6, 8, 10]

const doubleArray = arr.map((num) => {
  return num * 2
})

console.log(doubleArray)
```

What was the result?

**Food for thought: Does the `map` method mutate the original array?**

## Now you try

### Activity - 30 mins

With the following arrays, define and perform all of the methods below. Each group will then be assigned a method to teach to the class. When you present your method to the class, please come up with a real world example of when you might use this method.

1. Every
1. Filter
1. Find
1. Find Index
   <!-- 1. For Each -->
1. Map _(come up with a new example!)_
   <!-- 1. Reduce -->
1. Some
   <!-- 1. Sort _(research how to use sort with a callback)_ -->

### forEach Example

```js
const forEach = (arr, callback) => {
  for (let i = 0; i < arr.length; i++) {
    callback(arr[i])
  }
}
```

<!-- ```javascript
const classArray = [
  'Javascript',
  'HTML',
  'CSS',
  'Data Analysis',
  'Marketing',
  'Database Design',
  'Visual Design',
]

const numberArray = [31, 203, 30, 84, 5, 62, 770, 8, 99, 10, 0] -->

## Hungry for more

Further Explanations (https://codeburst.io/array-methods-explained-filter-vs-map-vs-reduce-vs-foreach-ea3127c6d319)
