
## Delete!

Let's remove an item from our cart

How can we do that? The first thought might be to remove the product object directly from our cart but there's no way to remove an entire object from an array in Javascript. Do you know how we can get around that?

Instead of trying to target an object directly, many developers try to target an objects *property* directly by looking for an object with a unique property and removing it. For our purposes we can remove by name since we know that hose are unique but they won't necessarily always be. Do you have any idea what we could target instead?

Let's start by creating the `deleteFromCart` method

**App.js**

```js
  deleteFromCart(name) {
    console.log(name)
  }
```

Don't forget to bind it in the constructor

```js
this.deleteFromCart = this.deleteFromCart.bind(this)
```

Pass this function down to `ShoppingCart`

```js
<ShoppingCart cart={this.state.cart} deleteFromCart={this.deleteFromCart} />
```

Let's make an item get deleted from the cart, when they are clicked on.

```js
<div className='cart-item' onClick={() => this.props.deleteFromCart(cartItem.name)}>
  <h1>{cartItem.name}</h1>
  <p>{cartItem.price}</p>
  <p>{cartItem.description}</p>
</div>
```

Since we didn't build out the full functionality yet the only thing that should happen when we click is that the name should console.log. Now, let's write out the full logging functionality.

Let's think about what we want to happen. When we click an item in our cart, we want the cart to have every item *except* whatever we click on. And since we're working with React, we know that need to update that cart without mutating the previous state. How can we do this?

This is where Higher Order Functions come in. We can use `filter` to return a new array with the value of the previous array with the clicked item filtered out.

```js
deleteFromCart(name) {
  const filteredCart = this.state.cart.filter((cart) => {
    return cart.name !== name
  })
  this.setState({
    cart: filteredCart
  })
}
```