# Immutability

instead of modifying the original, create a new data structure with the effects that you want

# Expression vs Statement

An [expression](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Expressions_and_Operators#Expressions) is any valid unit of code that resolves to a value. In other words, it returns a value by default

JavaScript applications consist of [statements](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements) with an appropriate syntax

Based off those definitions, name some examples of expressions and statements?

# Higher Order Functions

### Callback Methods

1. Every
1. Some
1. Find
1. Filter
1. ForEach
1. Map
1. Sort

There are a lot but we're going to focus on `forEach`, `map` and `filter` for this lesson

## Compare and Contrast `forEach` and `map`

Let's say we have an array of even numbers from 2 to 10. How could we use a `forEach` to multiply every value in the array by 2? How an we use a `map` to multiply an array of odds 1 to 9 by 2?

```js
const evens = [ 2, 4, 6, 8, 10 ]
const odds = [ 1, 3, 5, 7, 9 ]
```

Do you notice any difference in the two approaches? What happens if you try to store the results in a variable? What do you notice?

The `map` method is an *expression* while `forEach` is a *statement*. You can tell because it returns a value.

Also, check out the original arrays. Did `map` or `forEach` mutate them?

The `map` method does *not* mutate the original array! It gives us the benefit of helping us avoid bugs by not mutating the array and by giving us a return value that we can use later.

## Using Filter

The `filter` method [returns a new array with all elements that pass the test implemented by the provided function](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/filter). 

Imagine we had an array of numbers and we wanted to only return numbers divisible by 3.

```js
const arr = [1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,0,11,12,13,14,15]

arr.filter((num) => {
    return num % 3 === 0
})

console.log(arr) // [1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,0,11,12,13,14,15]
```

Remember, the filter method returns a new array - our original array was not *mutated*. If we want to get only the numbers that are divisible by 3, we have to get the return value and the way to do that is by storing it in a variable

```js
const arr = [1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,0,11,12,13,14,15]

const divisibleByThree = arr.filter((num) => {
    return num % 3 === 0
})

console.log(divisibleByThree) // [3,6,9,12,15]
```

The filter method can be used not only on arrays of numbers, but even strings or objects.

```js
const arr = ['strong', 'inconceivable', 'overzealous', 'ant', 'shock']

const largeWords = arr.filter((word) => {
    return word.length > 10
})

console.log(largeWords) // ['inconceivable', 'overzealous']
```

### PRACTICE

Complete the following exercises

1. Using an array of numbers 1 to 20, use the filter method to return numbers that are divisible by 2 
1. Using an array of numbers 1 to 20, use the filter method to return numbers that are divisible by 2 *and* 3
1. Using the array of birds below, use the filter method to return an array of birds that are cool
1. Using the array of birds below, use the filter method to return an array without the duck
```js
const birds = [
    {
        type: 'Vulture',
        isCool: true
    },
    {
        type: 'Eagle',
        isCool: true
    },
    {
        type: 'Pigeon',
        isCool: false
    },
    {
        type: 'Duck',
        isCool: false
    },
]
```

## Hungry for more

Further Explanations (https://codeburst.io/array-methods-explained-filter-vs-map-vs-reduce-vs-foreach-ea3127c6d319)
